Hello and welcome back to the course of action.
And today we're talking about the dreaded 51 percent attack.
If you've been following this course and reading the supplementary materials or you've been just talking
to people about block chain then one way or another you've probably already come across you want the
51 percent attack and maybe somebody has mentioned it or you've read it somewhere and this is an attack
that it's a hypothetical attack but it could possibly happen and it's so common the feared or discussed
by blockaders and minors because it's so interesting and also because of the consequences that it can
have.
And today we'll talk about two things.
First we'll talk about what the 1 percent attack is not and then we'll talk about what the future on
an attack is.
So let's start with the first one the 51 percent attack is not an attack designed to tamper with an
individual or select blocks.
This is not the 51st attack.
The reason for that is why I decided that it's important for us to mention this is because back in one.
Remember how long ago that was when we were still just learning the bare foundations of what changed.
Well we had a tutorial about distributed peer to peer networks and there was an example that distributed
networks are great because for an attacker to hypothetically tamper with a bloke they would not only
have to hack into the computer or one person on top of this block and then with this.
And then you know a change that has changed Hashana hashed and rehashed all these blocks falling but
they would have to do that on many different computers or at least you know like half of all the computers
so that that was just an example to illustrate the concept of the power of distributed networks in the
proper 51 percent attack.
What we talk about is 51 percent of the hash rate not 51 percent of the nodes that type that or this
hypothetical example that we just described which is not even considered an attack because it's impossible
as well.
As well as the Bosch is a concern.
It's just it's just improved pretty much impossible to do that simply because you would have to hack
into computers of not just miners but you'd have to get hacked into computers of nodes who are also
part of the network and that those there's so many more of those than miners.
So that is basically the bottom line here is that that is the future on business and that is not that
is impractical or impossible even if you have more than 50 percent of it.
So on that note we're going to move on to what the 51 percent attack actually is.
So here is what it is.
So here we've got our miters.
This is the hole that will go miners.
This might not be like Bitcoin.
As you can see we have eight binders here might be some other smaller cryptocurrency is more bloodshed
like a start up type of collection is only and plus we're not illustrating all of them as old age here
and maybe in total is like 800 or something minor is on the chain.
So far eight thousand and they're just doing their thing mining the blogs.
You know there's some more blogs come in and so on.
And then all of a sudden this other group of miners adjoins them and joins the network.
And so here they are as you can see they're red.
So that's a hint that they're malicious.
They're evil minors.
And what they do is they say hey guys can we join your network we want to mind your amazing cryptocurrency
with you let's do this together or in fact they don't.
They don't actually.
They don't actually talk that much.
They just go to this network and they get a copy of this of this chain.
They get a copy of the chain.
They get you know they set themselves up as if they're going to mind the network.
So they get it what do they get they get a copy of the chain they get their meme pools they get all
everything set up.
And so we're got to just remember that the part in the point in time when they came into the network
was this block this was the most recent blog we're going to put an hour ago.
And then what these guys do is they like.
All right.
So Nora and they close themselves off from the whole world so they just cut off the connection and they
don't broadcast anything back to the network and in fact they don't even care what the network tries
to broadcast.
They just do their own thing now.
And so what are they going to do.
So these attackers are just going to keep whining.
That's all they're doing there's nothing nothing like really the the concept of the attack is an attack
but they're not going to be doing anything illegal or breaking into anybody's computers or anything
like that.
So then what happens.
These guys keep fighting.
They get two blocks up to a certain time in the same time because there's more miners here.
They have more hash rate.
They get more blocks.
They get four blocks.
These guys get blocks these guys get five blocks.
These guys get three blocks.
These guys get for four books or something like that.
Yeah.
So basically as we can see because there's more of them as more time passes.
These these are my sample books these mine more blocks and the difference between them increases.
And then all of a sudden.
So and the key thing here is that they're closed off certain they're not broadcasting information about
the blocks that they're mining to this network.
They're not.
So this network is just doing their own thing.
They don't even know that you know they they don't even know that was going on here.
They just think this is the only version of the chain.
And then these miners all of a sudden open up open up the seal they get back online they connect back
to this network and they do start broadcasting they start broadcasting the network.
And so what is what happens here.
So now we have all of a sudden this whole full that grew.
Now this becomes a full network and this full network we have two competing chains.
We have one competing chain and second competing shape.
And what is our golden rule of thumb How are how is the algorithm going to decide which is the correct
change.
The golden rule is that the longest chain wins longest chain is king and therefore these blocks are
invalid.
So the algorithm will look and will see OK up to here.
The chains are identical.
And then from here they are different.
OK so which one is longer this was longer.
This one wins.
This one has to go away as the die off.
And so basically these guys effectively turn red.
They become part of this chain.
Now they're part of this chain.
And so you know again there's there has been no no nothing illegal happening nobody's like hacked into
everybody's computer what is the problem here what's wrong.
Well what is wrong is that now like if these miners were smart from the start then they can have could
have gained a significant advantage or they could have gained.
You know like profits from the double spend problem.
And how does that happen.
We mentioned the double spam problem.
Previously we merged the double spend problem in the tutorial on orphan blocks and what that means is
that now that these blocks have been canceled out all of their transactions remember what happens to
all the transactions in these blocks.
Well they get released back into the meme pool.
And since now they're in the meme pool.
They are no longer Kuro their own confirmed transactions Uraga valid.
So what these miners could have done is before.
So at the very start back here when this block was being added They could have just gone to this network
and not as miners but as nodes and they could have just purchased lots of stuff so they could have taken
whatever.
If this is Bitcoin they could have gone and took their Bitcoin and bought yachts and Ferrari's and airplanes
and our exchange.
Other good one is the exchange that bitcoin for like to coin a bitcoin cash and ether and other things.
So like spend spend a lot of money a lot of the cryptocurrency and then.
So those transactions would have gone into that block.
But now that block is cancelled out so the transactions are free to go but the transactions get out
of the block.
But they keep their assets or they keep their like coins or Bitcoin cash or ether or Ferrari's whatever
it is they just get to keep it because it's cryptocurrency Well nobody will actually.
Nobody actually knows who they are right.
It's all it's all done through keys and sold and it's all done anonymously nobody can find them or track
them down.
That's a that's a huge advantage of cryptocurrency so nobody will ever find who they are is going to
get to keep all their things that they bought and what happens to those transactions.
Good question.
Right.
So what happens.
Well like a lot of people don't really.
Well as far as I can imagine they don't really look like this through like a lot of people stop the
stop.
I guess explanation or analysis of a problem there.
But the trend actually really is back to the temple so how come there are those whose actions can go
back into New blocks right so the transaction that this person or this miner bought a Ferrari can go
back into a new block here.
But it's because they still control 51 percent of the rate they're not going to let that happen.
They're not going to pick that transaction to go into the next block.
These guys might try to do that but they have less power or hash in power so these guys are more likely
to put in the next block and so the next block won't hold any of those transactions that were released.
That's important to understand because if they don't have the future 1 percent power after the attack
is finished then those transactions releases them ampoules they can get picked up and put back into
the blocks later on.
So even though there's is a problem can be kind of fixed like that but because their control is still
there on some of the temple they can just even mind empty blocks if they like or they can just put transactions.
Others actually except for the ones that they don't want in there.
They can't just keep putting them in.
And then a certain time of power will pass and these transactions will be released out of the pool back
to their owners because there's a rule like for instance in Bitcoin right now it's 72 hours I think
that if your transaction is in the stock in the temple for 72 hours then it gets released back to you
and it doesn't.
Nothing nothing happens because like me maybe it's because the fees are too low or whatever else.
And so transactions again can get pushed out of the Temple back after a certain time.
So that's all they have to do is just have to not include transactions for a certain time.
And so why is this so powerful.
Another reason is because it can last for so long.
You don't like with the with the orphan blocks.
We only we saw that that could happen for like one or two or three blocks maximum occasionally.
And the old examples we saw were just like one block one orphant blog and then right away.
The problem is solved because that happens kind of like accidentally whereas here is it's done maliciously.
And why is it so powerful is because users on the on the block say they usually have like an agreed
time frame when transactions can are considered properly confirmed where they usually take like six
blocks.
So for instance a transaction that's happened in this block is only has two confirmations one confirmation
to a confirmation is a new blog that comes after after the blog.
So.
So there we go.
So this actually has two confirmations.
And normally what they do is they wait for six confirmations.
Everything in this block is considered to really have six information.
So just a general rule of thumb it's considered to be safe.
That's OK.
So since it's got six confirmations we can say that it's pretty much safe.
It's safe to say that there is going to be no double spend problem with Israel's actions here or in
here because we've gone so far so deep there's so deep in the chain that they're probably not going
to get reversed and really liking what they're going to arrest is very low.
But in the case of an attack that's what the attackers are betting on.
And while on Bitcoin it's extremely hard to do something like this because of the immense high rate
that exists already on other chains.
It is it is possible on other smaller cryptocurrency it might not be as lucrative financially but it's
still possible.
And there you go so that's the 51 percent attack I like a very important notion.
Very important to understand what goes goes into it and like it and said what it's not and what it is.
And as we can see it's quite simple.
And interestingly enough it's not like as far as I understand it not doing anything illegal is just
there there's just more of them and they approach this mining process by secluding themselves for some
time.
And you know and then the double spend Yes they have malicious intent but are they doing anything illegal.
Not.
Not 100 percent sure about that.
I don't know.
Maybe they'll introduce laws around block chains and Bitcoin and so on that this will be considered
illegal in the future.
But the threat is there.
And what I wanted to recommend now at the end is a great article which I found very interesting is called
choosing asix for s.a.
And plus I added some comments here.
Plus we suggest reading the comments at the bottom of this article and the reason for that is this article
was written by David Warrick who's the CEO of s.a.a it's it's a block chain for storing It's like a
block just like a Dropbox version of block chain version of Dropbox like storing file hosting.
So it's a blog for file hosting just a D decentralized distributed file hosting.
And so as you can see from the articles lots it's not called the 51 percent attack.
It's actually about their choice of introducing asix which we discussed before into siaa.
So they're the creators of CAA and they want to introduce A-6 into their own blotching so that people
can excuse me so that people can mine their blog chain with it.
So it's about that.
But he really goes into a lot of detail on the future and present attack one of the reasons one of the
big reasons why he's choosing to introduce A-6 is the huge trauma center.
The reason why we're here here I'm suggesting it to read the comments is because by reading the articles
you can get release drag a way into his way of thinking which you know might be a valid argument but
he has a very very thin like 1 like 1 1 Sorriso on you describing everything from one position.
Why is good is definitely good for the network and while you will learn a lot about the 51 percent attack
and how it's good or bad and how it can be beneficial or not.
For me like how can be cost effective or not for different types of scenarios.
You can also develop like a very one sided view of why A-6 are good for a small watch.
So the people in the comments they actually confront our confront they dispute that they have different
opinions so just on to get overwhelmed by the amount of arguments that he gives.
Check the comments so that you get a different perspective on the other issues that he discusses in
the in the article.
So there you go.
That's that's sort of almost an attack I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and now you know what is
and it all is all about.
And I look forward to seeing it better next time.
Until then enjoy auctions.